The Perfect Job is an Illusion
The Great Resignation was inevitable.
Everywhere you look, people are quitting their jobs and other people (mostly corporate executives) are trying to figure out why. But it’s not hard to get to the core of what’s causing The Great Resignation.
Recently published data from The Pew Research Center reveals the main reasons people are quitting. Topping the list are low pay, no opportunity to advance, and feeling disrespected. Other issues include a need for (or lack of) childcare, zero flexibility, and poor benefits.
These issues are nothing new, but it seems like workers are experiencing a kind of collective epiphany that’s happening across all industries and business sectors. People are deciding they don’t want to deal with all the crap anymore.
Two years of death and disease forced us to confront our mortality, so that’s one thing that happened. But another is how so many businesses handled the pandemic in first place. Companies from Amazon to Walmart to ASOS put their people in danger, making it clear that employees are expendible in the most literal sense.
Before Covid, the fact that workers were easily-replaced cogs in an ever-turning corporate wheel seemed inevitable. That’s capitalism, right? So most of us put our heads down and got the work done.
But then the plague came and we saw with painful clarity that life is, perhaps, much shorter than we thought it was. Through the lense of this newly realized vulnerability, people began quitting their jobs and leaving their chosen professions.
Tired of the grind, the long hours, the discrimination, the poor working conditions, and the relentless expectation to always be available on email or Slack or mobile, the world’s workers began leaving their dead end jobs. As of January 2022, this mass exodus has shown no signs of slowing.
But why did people wait so long to leave? Why quit a cushy office job in the midst of a pandemic when having a job is so critical to identity (not to mention survival?) I don’t think it’s because people stopped wanting to work, as dubious career luminary Kim Kardashian eloquently chirped in a recent Variety article.
No, I think people are leaving because the pandemic broke the spell of fear and self-doubt that keeps so many of us stuck in our miserable jobs year after mind-numbing year. Which brings me to Dunder Mifflin — the ficitional paper company in the TV show The Office.
About a two years before my daughter died, she became obsessed with the U.S. adaptation of The Office. She’d been blowing through season after season for weeks by the time she approached me and declared that she was having an existential crisis.
She’d been binge watching the show to such an extent that she had seen one of the main characters — Pam — morph from a single receptionist to a married sales associate with two children in the span of three months.
Our conversation went something like this.
“She’s still there — at a paper company. I mean, it seems so boring and pointless.”
“It’s just a show.”
“You used to work in an office. Is it really like that?”
“Yes, sometimes. Especially when you’re first starting out. But it’s good to get that experience and move on.”
“But Pam didn’t move on.”
“No, some people don’t.”
“You did.”
“I had to. I got laid off and started freelancing. Otherwise I’d be stuck in an office job just like Pam.”
In truth, I probably wouldn’t have stayed at that job. I’d always loathed working in an office. I hated the crappy office politics, the poor lighting, the constant interruptions, and the endless stress of trying to get to the next rung of the ladder (something that became impossible for me after I had my first child). I hated the largely male, largely white, largely overeducated corporate power dynamic most of all.
I didn’t want corporate life for my girls. I definitely didn’t want the shuttered, frustrating, endlessly demoralizing life of office work for my kid who was fighting so hard for the chance to grow up.
If anyone was entitled to have an existential crisis, it was Ana. She was diagnosed with cancer when she was eleven. A liver transplant saved her life, for a while, and it looked like she’d get to resume the business of growing up almost normally, but her cancer came back.
Ana was reminded of her own mortality with each CT scan, each surgery, and each new treatment, but she continued to look forward to life. She was grateful when she started high school and she never stopped dreaming about going to college, getting a job, and having a family.
Then she binge-watched The Office and began wondering about the point of working in a place where people clearly aren’t happy, of staying in that place year after miserable year. She recognized the futility of the grind and how each day was a carbon copy of itself. She didn’t want that for herself.
Unlike most teenagers who assume that they have all the time in the world, Ana was constantly watching her mortal clock tick down. Nine seasons of The Office was roughly a decade of Pam’s life — that all-important decade where you go from being young and aspirational to a (boring) grown up with responsibilities like children and a mortgage.
Seeing this transition starkly played out on Netflix made my dying child question the point of things like college and high school and American dreams.
Admittedly, Dunder Mifflin is depicted as a particularly terrible work environment. The absurdity of the place wasn’t lost to Ana.
The cast of characters, forced to endure each other within the guise of corporate unity, are uniquely unhappy in their own tortured way. Ana had wondered if the Dunder Mifflin work environment was based on reality. She had wondered if this kind of future was what she was fighting so hard for.
When she came to me with her concerns about The Office, what she was really asking me about was the futility of work. Was hating work inevitable? My first instinct was to tell her that jobs like Pam’s weren’t inevitable and that she should run away from places like Dunder Mifflin.
And yet…most of us start our professional lives at a place that’s equally miserable. It’s getting out that’s the hard part.
Escape, for me, came from self-employment. Before I was laid off in 2002, I’d dreamed about working from home and being self-employed. As a new mother, I couldn’t keep up with my mostly childless colleagues. Even though I liked the work I did, my passion for the company had dried up. I had something way more important in my life — my daughter.
Getting laid off turned out to be the motivation I needed to try something different. It was my “what have I got to lose?” opportunity to take control of my life and the way I spent my time. Becoming a freelancer was a gamble that ultimately worked.
The pandemic is doing this same thing for millions of people around the world.
Since I started my own tiny consulting business twenty years ago, the daily grind of a “regular” job has gotten worse for so many people. Before Covid, working insane hours was the rule rather than the exception. If people complained, they were ridiculed and told to find another job. (Check out the comments on this article from 2014 about former Apple managers citing Apple’s 24/7 work culture). And don’t even get me started on Amazon.
Companies like Amazon and Apple are often praised for their great pay and benefits.Yet Apple’s corporate culture has always been secretive and well guarded. We don’t really know what it’s like to work at these places eight (or twelve) hours a day. The depressing reality may be that working at Apple is just as mind-numbing and soul-sucking as working at Dunder Mifflin. What a drag.
Giving all your time and passion to fulfill someone else’s corporate dream in exchange for a fictional idea of success doesn’t have to be inevitable. That’s what Covid is teaching us. Because, what if something goes wrong? What if we don’t have as much time with our loved ones as we think we do?
If I’d been working in a full-time job when Ana got sick, I would’ve had to quit.
She spent forty days in the hospital the year she was diagnosed. She was hospitalized regularly in the six months leading up to her liver transplant. And that was just the tip of the iceberg. After she died, I didn’t have the stomach to rejoin the rat race. I completely reinvented my business so that I could work at a pace that allowed me to grieve. I barely worked at all that first year.
When I read stories about people dying at their desk or struggling to keep up with longer and longer work hours, I worry. My younger daughter is about to graduate high school. She’s an artist with a deep passion for making a difference in the world. I don’t want some corporate behemoth like Apple or Amazon or Google to siphon her energy for their own gain like the corporate vampires they are.
If you’re Tim Cook or Jeff Bezos and you’re scratching your head wondering why your employees are so unhappy, start with looking at your own unrealistic expectations.
Do you want people to stop quitting? Then start actually caring about them. Respect their time. Recognize that their lives don’t begin and end with Apple or Amazon or whatever other company you’re running. Someone is not a bad employee if they want to feel the sun on their face on a Saturday and spend time with their kids.
I mean, fuck. Open your eyes.
Ana once dreamed of working at Google. She’d heard they had coffee stations and free food, laundry on the premises, and nap nooks.
I told her, “Sweetie, they do that because they don’t want you to leave.”
They recruit college kids and divert their lives, make them all about the work which is supposed to be all that matters, while discouraging things like parenting and sleeping.
So, getting back to my dead child’s existential crisis — what’s it all for?
Is it worth cutting your life short to put in fifty or sixty hours a week when studies have shown that anything above forty hours is basically useless? Is it worth putting off time with your kids or your wife or your aging parents so you can chase a tenuous promotion?
More likely, it’s a false promise. It’s an exercise in futility. It’s you staring tiredly at your screen, listlessly working through your to do list, or robotically checking your email when you could be working on your novel or unwinding with your spouse or eating dinner or, I don’t know…resting.
I’ve freelanced for literally dozens of companies over the last twenty years and can safely say that the best companies are the ones that value work-life balance.
They don’t email me over the weekend. They don’t launch campaigns at midnight on a Friday. They don’t push deadlines up just because they can.
They give me the benefit of time — both time on and time off — so that my mind remains fresh and my motivation remains strong. For me, the perfect job is one that shapes itself around my life instead of forcing me to squeeze my life into the narrow space between deadlines, meetings, and unreasonable expectations.




The hardest part about having a chronic illness is its key characteristic: it’s lifelong. By definition, these illnesses are incurable. Daily, patients attempt to sleuth the cause of flares, determine what might bring relief, and hurdle obstacles to wellness, such as puzzling and debilitating symptoms, a lack of credible information, confusing medical regimens, and difficulty securing doctor appointments.
And while patients often feel isolated, they’re not alone. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that six in 10 adults in the United States suffer from a chronic illness, while four in 10 have two or more. These illnesses account for $3.8 trillion in annual health care costs, yet the health care system isn’t equipped to meet patients’ needs.
Here’s the good news: Mobile apps are bridging a broad care gap, providing evidence-based information and tools for logging disease-related data to trace trends and patterns that can inform management strategies. According to a 2017 report by the IQVIA Institute, there were 318,500 mobile health apps that year—a number that was growing by 200 each day. Of these, 40 percent are dedicated to the management of a range of illnesses, most commonly heart disease, diabetes, musculoskeletal conditions, and mental health issues such as anxiety, depression, autism, ADHD, and Alzheimer’s. And studies suggest they work, alleviating the burden on the health care system while boosting patients’ ability to live better with illness.
According to Yossi Bahagon, cofounder and active chairman of Sweetch, a digital therapeutics solution company, “Effective therapies require frequent, individualized interventions that extend beyond the hospital and clinic to reach patients in their day-to-day lives.” Improving clinical outcomes, he says, requires overcoming the “last-mile problem” involving patient behavior.
“Mobile apps that combine advanced data science with robust behavioral science models and user experience can drive the adoption of recommended health promotion and chronic disease management behaviors in a highly personalized, cost-efficient, and scalable way that can change the trajectory of the chronic disease epidemic.”
A Complex Autoimmune Disease
While mobile apps help individuals with virtually all chronic illnesses, they may be especially useful for people with poorly understood conditions such as Hashimoto’s, a progressive, lifelong autoimmune disease and the leading cause of hypothyroidism—underactive thyroid—which affects 5 to 10 percent of the adult population. It most commonly affects women, people with a family history of the condition, and those with other autoimmune disorders such as celiac disease or lupus, and the risk increases with age. Here, the immune system produces antibodies that damage the thyroid and inhibit its production of hormones, leading to a vast array of symptoms, from fatigue to brain fog.
Because these complaints aren’t specific only to Hashimoto’s, and since routine blood tests typically don’t reveal telltale antibody levels, individuals may go undiagnosed and untreated for years, the consequences of which can be severe, including heart disease, poor mental health, fertility and pregnancy problems, and obesity and its complications.
Treatments target the thyroid. But according to Pankaj Sharda, an endocrinologist specializing in thyroid disease at Philadelphia’s Fox Chase Cancer Center, “Hypothyroidism affects everything from head to toe, not just the thyroid.” There may be other components that go unaddressed because they’re not understood. That’s why, he adds, close to a quarter of patients don’t improve with medication.
Featured Video

Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter 


Get WIRED + a free tote
Subscribe now
Most Popular
•	
 

Science

Why You (and the Planet) Really Need a Heat Pump

Matt Simon
•	
 

Business

Russia's Killer Drone in Ukraine Raises Fears About AI in Warfare

Will Knight
•	
 

Culture

We Need to Talk About That Character in Horizon Forbidden West

Eric Ravenscraft
•	
 

Ideas

The End of Infinite Data Storage Can Set You Free

Drew Austin
•	
According to Katie Wilkinson, head of community at Paloma Health, an online specialty clinic focused on Hashimoto’s and hypothyroidism, key issues for patients are access to care and care quality. “The average wait time for an appointment with a thyroid doctor is 37 days,” she says. “Appointments are often rushed, averaging seven minutes, and patients often report feeling dismissed or unheard by their doctors.” In between doctor visits, they, like those with other chronic illnesses, are left to contend with fluctuating symptoms, exhaustion, and even depression.
How Apps Help
Vedrana Högqvist Tabor, a biomedical researcher with a background in digital health, faced these challenges as a Hashimoto’s patient. Tired of the one-size-fits-all approach, she wanted a solution “that would improve patients’ day-to-day care, reduce nonessential doctor visits, and relieve frustration with current treatment options.” She couldn’t find one, so she created her own, the BOOST Thyroid app (available for iPhone, and coming soon to Android.) Tabor is CEO and cofounder of VLM Health, a Berlin-based health tech startup. She and her team built an app that lets users track symptoms on an intensity scale, log lab tests and medication adherence, access evidence-based information on all aspects of Hashimoto’s and hypothyroidism, and provide their physicians with an overview of the data they input. A joint study undertaken with Oxford University indicated that approximately 96 percent of users surveyed found the app helpful, reporting fewer doctor visits, less frustration and anxiety, and fewer and less intense symptoms.
Like Tabor, Eva Galant, founder and CEO of Hashiona, was inspired by personal experience to develop an app for Hashimoto’s sufferers. Working in a high-stress corporate culture took so great a toll on her that she resigned to focus on self-care. When she changed her lifestyle to emphasize diet and stress reduction, her hypothyroid symptoms improved. Aware that most people can’t quit their jobs to prioritize their health, she developed a streamlined solution, the Hashiona app (available for iPhone and Android.)
With Hashimoto’s, “well-being depends on several factors, including proper treatment, supplementation, diet, physical activity, stress reduction, sleep hygiene, and taking care of other organs,” she says. “Making changes in all these areas without a plan may be too difficult for anyone who’s taking the first steps on the road to wellness.” The app aims to lead users to remission with a science-based, 20-week, step-by-step approach that includes modules on thyroid function, stress management, exercise, and diet, and access to teleconsultations with specialists. As with BOOST Thyroid, tracking disease factors helps users see trends and patterns and lets them rely on that data, rather than their memory, when communicating with physicians.
Another helpful tool is the Paloma Thyroid Hormone Health app (available for iPhone and Android,) created in-house by registered dietitians and health coaches from Paloma Health. According to Wilkinson, “Research shows that getting good thyroid care is extremely hard, and that diet and lifestyle interventions are not typically part of the current standard of care.” The goal was to provide “a full-stack approach that covers all their needs related to hypothyroidism.” The app provides a framework for tracking data, implementing lifestyle changes, and building thyroid-health habits through the use of more than 75 self-paced learning modules. It also features a 12-week nutrition plan based on the autoimmune protocol diet to help patients reduce inflammation and alleviate thyroid symptoms.
The Bigger Picture
Apps benefit patients by offering individualized care in place of a cookie-cutter approach, Sharda says, but they’re a boon to researchers as well. That’s why both Tabor and Galant aim to increase the role of artificial intelligence in their solutions. “This,” Galant says, “will help develop knowledge about the condition based on the thousands of anonymized data points we collect.” To this end, in the evolution of BOOST Thyroid, Tabor envisions “more individualization and actionable insights through building better algorithms, using more machine learning to help detect early disease complications.”
Tabor, who’s given TEDx and WIRED Health talks about the role “big data plays in bringing female health to parity with male health,” says anonymized data can improve outcomes, especially in diseases predominantly affecting females. In the case of Hashimoto’s, she says, it’s essential to be able to rapidly collect “big chunks of clean and diverse data” in order to turn what she calls an under-researched and underserved condition into one that’s preventively manageable.
Most Popular
•	
 

Science

Why You (and the Planet) Really Need a Heat Pump

Matt Simon
•	
 

Business

Russia's Killer Drone in Ukraine Raises Fears About AI in Warfare

Will Knight
•	
 

Culture

We Need to Talk About That Character in Horizon Forbidden West

Eric Ravenscraft
•	
 

Ideas

The End of Infinite Data Storage Can Set You Free

Drew Austin
•	
Tabor, Galant, and other developers hope to change the future of treatment by working with academic researchers whose published analysis of the data will educate the public and inform healthcare stake holders. “By ensuring systematic logging of data we can help research to provide in-depth knowledge to other stakeholders—doctors to embrace an individualized treatment approach, insurance to understand how preventive treatment will reduce health complications, and pharmaceutical companies to understand the impact of their medication and incentivize them to create new treatment modalities,” says Tabor.
What About Privacy?
Developers assure users that privacy and security are paramount—that their apps meet or exceed all data privacy and security requirements. Hashiona, for example, Galant says, “uses the highest security measures when handling user information. All connections between the device and our servers are protected using TLS 256-bit encryption, and sensitive data are encrypted by our own keys.” Dedicated, hardware-based cryptographic key storage, she adds, “allows us to meet compliance requirements.”
Further, when data from these apps are incorporated in research, users, who are fully informed about research projects, must opt in to participate and can later opt out. No individually identifiable data is used, and no data is shared with stakeholders. The information, Tabor says, is anonymized and securely shared only with university researchers, who aggregate and analyze the data and publish their findings.
It’s All About Empowerment
Although apps can help people reduce the number of flare-ups and sick days, says Janice Johnston, chief medical officer and cofounder of Redirect Health, they’re not a substitute for routine care and physician consultation. But in the treatment of Hashimoto’s and other chronic illnesses, Sharda explains, “it’s like clapping. You need two hands. Physicians have their jobs to do, but it takes a big involvement from the patient as well.”
According to Edo Paz, a cardiologist and VP of medical at K Health, apps can bridge the care gap for people with any number of chronic illnesses while promoting empowerment. He points for example to patients with hypertension who may see their doctors two or three times a year and are on their own between visits, without reinforcement for lifestyle changes and treatment adherence—a challenge for people with most chronic conditions, especially those with diabetes and heart disease. “Patients are not just passive spectators, but active participants in chronic disease management,” he says, the true work of which “does not happen at the short visits with a doctor a few times per year, but with the actions people take on a daily basis all year long. Added up over time, these actions make a huge impact on long-term health outcomes.”
________________________________________






